# Naganishia Genome Comparison Project

## Overview

The Naganishia Genome Comparison Project aims to analyze and compare publicly available Naganishia genomes to identify unique traits corresponding to their specific environments, such as Antarctica or NASA clean rooms. This will lead to a deeper understanding of the genomic features associated with the persistance of fungi in extreme environments.

### download_assemblies

This directory contains scripts and files for downloading Naganishia assemblies using NCBI datasets. The process relies on a metadata file generated by NCBI datasets.

### annotate

This directory is dedicated to the annotation of Naganishia genomes using funannotate, and includes functional annotation

### BigScape

In this directory, BigScape is used based on antismash annotation of the genomes for clustering, grouping, and visualizing gene cluster diversity. The goal is to identify and characterize gene clusters that may be unique to specific environments. Find the output [here](https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/~kkell060/bigscape3/)

### clinker

The clinker directory involves the use of a Python script located in the scripts directory. The script extracts sequences from the Naganishia friedmanii genome located at the same position as contig 11 in Naganishia onofrii. This region in N. onofrii contains a carotenoid biosynthetic gene cluster. Clinker was run interactively, but the python scripts are stored in the scripts directory. You can find the output [here](https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/~kkell060/clinker_terpene)

### orthofinder

The orthofinder directory is dedicated to running OrthoFinder on the Naganishia genomes. It generates an upset plot based on shared orthologs between the genomes, providing insights into the evolutionary relationships and shared gene content. The job did not finish as I reached my slurm job limit : "sbatch: error: Batch job submission failed: Job violates accounting/QOS policy (job submit limit, user's size and/or time limits)"

## Note
The templates for this work were obtained from [StajichLab github](https://github.com/stajichlab)
